README.md, before:

# Introduction
I started this project on 27 Aug 2023 and is a work in progress. My original attempt was to write the firmware in MicroPython using the LVGL graphics library, but alas after painful trials it turned out that LVGL's MicroPython port is not yet ready to to run on the ESP32-S3 chip. One legacy of this experiment is that now there is a MicroPython driver for the IT8951 chip to drive eink displays on one of the project's branches (TODO link).

# Goal
A thin, light-weight, battery-driven, E-Ink-based [Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/) display that acts as a BLE peripheral (GATT server) and displays data like calendar events from 2 accounts, our home's current day energy/water consumtion, commuting travel times, and other things.

# Hardware setup
1. Set the dip-switches into a 0b001 position (sw3 at ON position) to enable the SPI Slave communication. This is counter-intuitive as sw1 should've been bit0...
2. Ensure that the board is powered from a 5V line as the EPD PMIC needs this voltage. On the e-ink ICE driving board, I had to solder a wire on a resistor under the USB connector as the 5V line was not broken out on any of the pins...
![image](https://github.com/davidanderle/eink_calendar/assets/17354704/3dca032c-fc01-4353-b139-fc69d722a0d5)
3. Download the [CP210x Universal Windows Driver](https://www.silabs.com/documents/public/software/CP210x_Universal_Windows_Driver.zip) and install it to allow you to upload code on the ProS3.

# Hellow, world!
I am using a Visual Studio Code setup with PowerShell.
## Espressif setup through Platform-IO
1. Download the PlatformIO extension
2. Create a new PlatformIO project for the Unexpected Maker ProS3 board.
3. Put the ProS3 in download mode:
    - Press & hold the `BOOT` button
    - Press the `RST` button
    - Release the `BOOT` button

## To upload the last binary without building
pio run -t nobuild -t upload

# Special character support
1. Convert ttf/wooff fonts [here](https://lvgl.io/tools/fontconverter) to LVGL format (see [ext_montserrat_14.c](https://github.com/davidanderle/eink_calendar/blob/espidf/src/ext_montserrat_14.c) as example)
2. Display uses [Montserrat](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Montserrat) extended with [Noto emoji](https://fonts.google.com/noto/specimen/Noto+Emoji) as its default font. 
3. Supported emojies: 0x203C-0x3299 and 🤖🎃😀😁😂🤣😍🥰😘🥺🥚🐸👀🍆🥹😊🙂
4. The emoji set can easily be extended but it quickly eats up the flash
5. Check the encoding of characters on [UTF-8 tool](https://www.cogsci.ed.ac.uk/~richard/utf-8.cgi?input=1F970&mode=hex) 

# Test setup
Examine BLE and write to characteristics from [WebBluetooth](chrome://bluetooth-internals/#devices)

# HA Bluetooth proxy
[ESPHome Bluetooth proxy](https://esphome.io/projects/?type=bluetooth)

# BOM
- [ProS3](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B09X22YBG7/ref=ewc_pr_img_2?smid=AGX9N6DGNRN2Q&psc=1) EPS32-S3 based WiFi+BLE+LiPo charger+PicoBlade to JST cable from [@UnexpectedMaker](https://github.com/UnexpectedMaker)'s [esp32s3](https://github.com/UnexpectedMaker/esp32s3) project, £26.99
- [375678 LiPo](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005004946019552.html?spm=a2g0o.cart.0.0.d80e38daNEjZz4&mp=1#nav-specification), 2500mAh, 3.7mm thick battery. (Positive and negative wires are swapped compared to the ProS3's LiPo charger!) £13.41
- [E-Ink VB3300-KCA](https://www.waveshare.com/product/displays/e-paper/epaper-1/10.3inch-e-paper-d.htm?___SID=U), flexible, 450ms full refresh, 4bpp, 10.3", 1872x1404 px display, £156.23+postage
- [ESP32-PICO-D4 WiFi BT donlge](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005006118961103.html), £5.58

# Reading the external SPI NOR flash from the ICE board
Using a J-Link Ultra+, download the SEGGER J-Flash SPI tool and go `Target > Read back > Entire chip`. Ensure that your SPI speed is sufficiently low to cope with the wiring's length. At `1MHz` it took me 34sec to download.
![image](https://github.com/davidanderle/eink_calendar/assets/17354704/6486e221-4802-4124-b2e9-9e668b6178bf)

# GUI design

# References

ICE driving board
![image](https://github.com/davidanderle/eink_calendar/assets/17354704/14772f9d-02dd-4990-bba2-ac562887a5ad)

Commit message:

Adding state of the project

README.md, after:

# State of project (18 Aug 2024)
- LVGL can render any objects on the E-Ink screen through the IT8951
- HA ESPHome BLE Proxy ready to send data
- PC to ProS3 BLE data exchange works
- BLE Rx data written to SPLIFFS as a JSON
- LVGL can dinamically display the RX'd BLE data

# Introduction
I started this project on 27 Aug 2023 and is a work in progress. My original attempt was to write the firmware in MicroPython using the LVGL graphics library, but alas after painful trials it turned out that LVGL's MicroPython port is not yet ready to to run on the ESP32-S3 chip. One legacy of this experiment is that now there is a MicroPython driver for the IT8951 chip to drive eink displays on one of the project's branches (TODO link).

# Goal
A thin, light-weight, battery-driven, E-Ink-based [Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/) display that acts as a BLE peripheral (GATT server) and displays data like calendar events from 2 accounts, our home's current day energy/water consumtion, commuting travel times, and other things.

# Hardware setup
1. Set the dip-switches into a 0b001 position (sw3 at ON position) to enable the SPI Slave communication. This is counter-intuitive as sw1 should've been bit0...
2. Ensure that the board is powered from a 5V line as the EPD PMIC needs this voltage. On the e-ink ICE driving board, I had to solder a wire on a resistor under the USB connector as the 5V line was not broken out on any of the pins...
![image](https://github.com/davidanderle/eink_calendar/assets/17354704/3dca032c-fc01-4353-b139-fc69d722a0d5)
3. Download the [CP210x Universal Windows Driver](https://www.silabs.com/documents/public/software/CP210x_Universal_Windows_Driver.zip) and install it to allow you to upload code on the ProS3.

# Hellow, world!
I am using a Visual Studio Code setup with PowerShell.
## Espressif setup through Platform-IO
1. Download the PlatformIO extension
2. Create a new PlatformIO project for the Unexpected Maker ProS3 board.
3. Put the ProS3 in download mode:
    - Press & hold the `BOOT` button
    - Press the `RST` button
    - Release the `BOOT` button

## To upload the last binary without building
pio run -t nobuild -t upload

# Special character support
1. Convert ttf/wooff fonts [here](https://lvgl.io/tools/fontconverter) to LVGL format (see [ext_montserrat_14.c](https://github.com/davidanderle/eink_calendar/blob/espidf/src/ext_montserrat_14.c) as example)
2. Display uses [Montserrat](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Montserrat) extended with [Noto emoji](https://fonts.google.com/noto/specimen/Noto+Emoji) as its default font. 
3. Supported emojies: 0x203C-0x3299 and 🤖🎃😀😁😂🤣😍🥰😘🥺🥚🐸👀🍆🥹😊🙂
4. The emoji set can easily be extended but it quickly eats up the flash
5. Check the encoding of characters on [UTF-8 tool](https://www.cogsci.ed.ac.uk/~richard/utf-8.cgi?input=1F970&mode=hex) 

# Test setup
Examine BLE and write to characteristics from [WebBluetooth](chrome://bluetooth-internals/#devices)

# HA Bluetooth proxy
[ESPHome Bluetooth proxy](https://esphome.io/projects/?type=bluetooth)

# BOM
- [ProS3](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B09X22YBG7/ref=ewc_pr_img_2?smid=AGX9N6DGNRN2Q&psc=1) EPS32-S3 based WiFi+BLE+LiPo charger+PicoBlade to JST cable from [@UnexpectedMaker](https://github.com/UnexpectedMaker)'s [esp32s3](https://github.com/UnexpectedMaker/esp32s3) project, £26.99
- [375678 LiPo](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005004946019552.html?spm=a2g0o.cart.0.0.d80e38daNEjZz4&mp=1#nav-specification), 2500mAh, 3.7mm thick battery. (Positive and negative wires are swapped compared to the ProS3's LiPo charger!) £13.41
- [E-Ink VB3300-KCA](https://www.waveshare.com/product/displays/e-paper/epaper-1/10.3inch-e-paper-d.htm?___SID=U), flexible, 450ms full refresh, 4bpp, 10.3", 1872x1404 px display, £156.23+postage
- [ESP32-PICO-D4 WiFi BT donlge](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005006118961103.html), £5.58

# Reading the external SPI NOR flash from the ICE board
Using a J-Link Ultra+, download the SEGGER J-Flash SPI tool and go `Target > Read back > Entire chip`. Ensure that your SPI speed is sufficiently low to cope with the wiring's length. At `1MHz` it took me 34sec to download.
![image](https://github.com/davidanderle/eink_calendar/assets/17354704/6486e221-4802-4124-b2e9-9e668b6178bf)

# GUI design

# References

ICE driving board
![image](https://github.com/davidanderle/eink_calendar/assets/17354704/14772f9d-02dd-4990-bba2-ac562887a5ad)
